special_cases.md, before:

Special Cases
=============

A collection of special cases of VA along different dimensions. (Some VA
fit into several dimensions.)

<!--

  Often we have several examples for each case. We probably should
  reduce that to a few cases each that show the diversity. Please do
  not remove such (proper) examples but comment them out.

  -->

Who's claiming it?
-------------------

- Her fans in Kerala, in southern India, consider her the **Julia
  Roberts** of *Malayalam-language films*.
- I like to consider myself the **Mae West** of *rock 'n' roll*,''
  Ms. Claret, the lead singer of the band Morningwood, said one recent
  evening.
- The ''85'' riddim is the work of Dave Kelly, a brilliant producer
  who could (but wouldn't) claim to be the **Dr. Dre** of *dancehall*.
- Willoughby is sometimes called the **Lake Lucerne** of *North
  America*


Temporal
--------

- Mr. Price, who could become the **Charles Bronson** of *guacamole*,
- In physique, personality and production, Ortiz could be the **Babe
  Ruth** of *the Dominican Republic*.
- Millicent Fenwick was the **Katharine Hepburn** of *politics*, said
  Charles Millard, a former aide and now a Republican New York City
  Councilman.
- Keith Haring will be the **Peter Max** of *the future*.
- United who has been hailed as the **future Michael Jordan** of
  *American soccer*.
- ''She could be the **Michael Jordan** *that women's basketball
  hasn't yet had*,'' said Michele Timms, a guard for Australia and a
  member of the Phoenix Mercury in the Women's National Basketball
  Association.

Hypothetical
------------

- Who is the Tolstoy of the Zulus?
- Or if you could, find **the Tiger Woods of** *auto racing*: someone
  who could capture the public's attention,'' he said.
- Another question is, Who will be **the Walt Disney of** *this era*?
- It felt right that **the James Bond of** *the future* would bed
  anyone,'' said Steven Moffat, the creator of the BBC sitcom
  ''Coupling'' and the writer of the Captain Jack storyline.
- ''She could be **the Michael Jordan** *that women's basketball
  hasn't yet had*,'' said Michele Timms, a guard for Australia and a
  member of the Phoenix Mercury in the Women's National Basketball
  Association.
- If Mel Gibson was truly **the ''Michelangelo of** *this
  generation*,'' as one supporter puts it, he would open screenings of
  ''The Passion'' to viewers other than those he knows will safely
  embrace it
- Bruce Ellerstein letter says that if Mel Gibson really were
  '**Michelangelo of** *his generation*' he would open up screenings
  of The Passion to viewers other than those he knows will safely
  embrace it

More than one
-------------

- I actually consider myself **the Stalin of** *basketball*,'' he
  says, ''**the Hitler of** *basketball*, **the Pol Pot of**
  *basketball*.''
- Guzman is regarded as "**the Stalin of** *Patchogue*, **the Idi Amin
  of** *Long Island*
- Waterman, **the Rolls-Royce of** *pens* acquired in 1987, and
  Papermate, **the Chevrolet of** *pens*
- "New York State is **the Cadillac of** *social services*,"
  Mr. Alfonso said. "**Other states** have *Volkswagens*."
- A historian and journalist by training, he has nonetheless striven
  for years to bear witness to Montana history in fiction, and to
  become if not the Homer at least **the Virgil of** *generations of
  Scots who migrated to northwestern Montana before and after it
  became a state in 1889*.
- A noted French writer has called Leni Riefenstahl "**the Plato and
  Michelangelo of** *the Leica*," and her films assure her an enduring
  place in cinematic history.
- London, a professor at New York University and the Conservative
  Party candidate four years ago, is the seasoned veteran of this road
  show, a wanderer who is either **the Odysseus or Don Quixote of**
  *the race*, depending how his fortunes fall.
- "he was the Babe Ruth, the Michael Jordan, the Wayne Gretzky of
  racing"
- By the time he stands, slick with sweat and smiling, at the curtain
  calls, the audience is on its feet and screaming for him as if he is
  **the Mick Jagger or Michael Jordan of** *Broadway*.
- If Jones was **the Michael Jordan of** *her time*, scoring at will,
  Cain, 33, is **the Magic Johnson** of *hers*.
- "Romario is **the Michael Jordan of** *soccer* and Bebeto is **the
  Magic Johnson of** *soccer*," said American defender Paul Caligiuri.
- Descriptions of Mr. King as "a *street* **Machiavelli**, a *ghetto*
  **Einstein**" and of Muhammad Ali as "the **Einstein** of *the Sweet
  Science*" hit the eye like a head-butt, and calling Ali's victory
  over George Foreman "an epic, a miracle, a revolution" throws
  rhetoric over the event while illuminating nothing.
- Some possible portents of doom: a recording that advertises
  Beethoven's Fifth Symphony as "the **'Star Wars'** of *symphonic
  music*" and Ludwig van B. himself as the **Kurt Cobain** of *his
  generation*; a famous young virtuoso playing "The Four Seasons" in a
  music video broadcast on the Weather Channel; arousing anthologies
  of "Sensual Classics" aimed at heterosexual or homosexual listeners;
  disks of Arvo Part's music stamped with a descriptive blurb from
  Michael Stipe of R.E.M.
  [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#0744055_0)

<!-- many more can be found here:
https://github.com/weltliteratur/vossanto/blob/master/first/notes.org#more-than-three-parts-but-not-if-
-->


Combined with a condition:
- If Mr. Moynihan is the **Sherlock Holmes** of *the fiscal story*,
  then Mr. Stockman is at once *its* **Dr. Watson** and *its*
  **Moriarty**
- If Wrigley is the **Faneuil Hall Marketplace** of *ball parks*,
  Comiskey is **Paddy's Market**.
- If Wynton Marsalis is the **Steven Spielberg** of *the jazz scene*,
  the alto saxophonist Steve Coleman has a strong claim to being *its*
  **Stanley
  Kubrick**. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1104452_0)
- If Ms. Clayburgh was the **Julia Roberts** of *the late 1970's*,
  Gabriel Byrne might be described as the **Humphrey Bogart** of *the
  early
  1990's*. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1701109_0)
- If Toys "R" Us is the **Gulliver** of *toy sellers*, then Nintendo
  is the **Godzilla** of *toys*
- If this was the Zagat's of the air, I would now be the **Ruth
  Reichl** of *the sky*. (?) <!-- is this one? if so, highlight source+modifier -->
- But if Jordan is the **Chuck Yeager** of *basketball*, Julius Erving
  was **Charles Lindbergh** and Connie Hawkins was *its* **Wright
  Brothers**. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#0526474_0)
- If Vanilla Ice is the **Pat Boone** of *hip-hop*, watering down a
  vibrant black musical form to make it appeal to a generic pop
  audience, then G. Love is *its* **Elvis
  Presley**. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#0694707_0)
- If bin Laden is the **Robin Hood** of *jihad*,'' the authors write,
  then Abu Musab al-Zarqawi ''has been *its* **Horatio Alger**, and
  Iraq his field of dreams.''
  [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1719129_0)


<!-- many more can be found here:
https://github.com/weltliteratur/vossanto/blob/master/first/notes.org#if-
-->

A special nested variant where the modifier is also a VA:
- We might claim for Rand a minor place in art history: an interesting
  American modulation of European modernist sobriety into bouncy
  Brooklyn cheerfulness, a **Richard Feynman** among *the Einsteins of
  design*, taking a Klee doodle for a walk on a Mondrian Manhattan
  grid. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1125694_0)
- He is a curmudgeon with opinions but no conviction, the **Andy
  Rooney** of *the Sahara of the Bozart*. (?)
  [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#0302493_0)

Some form of negation
---------------------

- Leach Cross, ''the fighting dentist,'' not Benny Leonard, was **the
  Moses of** *American Jewish boxing* (Sports pages, Dec. 27).
- He is not **a Donald Trump of** *the Lower East Side*.
- The ''85'' riddim is the work of Dave Kelly, a brilliant producer
  who could (but wouldn't) claim to be **the Dr. Dre of** *dancehall*.
- ''I am not the Peron of Venezuela, I am **the Chavez of**
  Venezuela,'' he has said.
- The Yankees were not **the Marco Polo of** *baseball*.
- Levine did not come back with **the Yao Ming of** *Chinese baseball*
  because no such person exists.
- ''He has not been **the Michael Jordan** *in the debates*,'' said
  Representative John R.
- ''She could be **the Michael Jordan** *that women's basketball
  hasn't yet had*,'' said Michele Timms, a guard for Australia and a
  member of the Phoenix Mercury in the Women's National Basketball
  Association.

Plural forms
---------------------
- CONCERT bands are **the Rodney Dangerfields of** *the music world*: they get no respect.
- They do not support **the Slobodan Milosevics of**  *the region*.
- That's Jim Wright's party, or ought to be, and trying to seduce **the Donald Trumps of** *this world* won't fool them or save it.
- He and other composers were **the Andrew Lloyd-Webbers of** *their day*, writing popular musicals in the hope of box-office success.
- To some, agreements among nations may seem like hopelessly weak weapons against **the Osama bin Ladens of** *the world*, who aren't known for consulting international law before acting.

Including explanations
---------------------
- It’s **the Dolly Parton of** *cakes*: a little bit tacky, but you love her,” said Angie Mosier, a food writer in Atlanta and a board member of the Southern Foodways Alliance at the University of Mississippi in Oxford.
- If not, Odom will become **the Randy Moss of** *the N.B.A.*, a guy with a lot of question marks who may pay huge dividends.
- He became **the Joyce Carol Oates of** *pop*, incredibly prolific with variable quality.
- She describes herself as "**the Donald Trump of** *the horse show world*," buying and selling horses like so many pieces of real estate, pocketing a profit and never shedding a tear as she watches her property being trucked away.
- He has since established himself as **the Tim McCarver of** *tennis*, the undisputed master of his craft.
- Mr. Cave is **the Elvis of** *punk*, a beloved and semitragic cult icon who for years has been battling the demon of his own image.
- It is the **Madonna** of *Italian-American literature* in that it shows the transition from the Italian immigrant to American citizen like no other book of its genre.''
- We might claim for Rand a minor place in art history: an interesting American modulation of European modernist sobriety into bouncy Brooklyn cheerfulness, a **Richard Feynman** among *the Einsteins of design*, taking a Klee doodle for a walk on a Mondrian Manhattan grid.
- Sam Schwartz, who writes the Gridlock Sam column for The Daily News,
  calls him the **Beethoven** of *traffic cops* -- in other words, he
  does not direct traffic so much as conduct it, like a
  symphony. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1035441_0)
- He is the **Stanley Kubrick** of *New York chefs* -- difficult to
  get a read on, by most accounts difficult to deal with, but always
  pointed in a direction that feels as though it will lead straight to
  the next big
  thing. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1175017_0)

Additional adjectives
---------------------

next
: ''I think Jason Giambi will be **the next Babe Ruth of** *New
  York*,'' Rodriguez said.

future
: United who has been hailed as **the future Michael Jordan of**
  *American soccer*.

would-be
: Suppose you are **a would-be Michael Jordan of** *my trade*,
  consulting?

undisputed
: Over the last 24 years, he has emerged as **the undisputed Don
  Quixote of** *the State Legislature*, a man willing to rail
  endlessly about the political misdeeds of the majority even when
  absolutely nobody was listening.

abused pint-size
: He has already had an encounter with two of the students -- the
  troubled basketball star Lester Dewitt (Usher Raymond) and Ziggy
  Malone (Robert Ri'chard ), **the abused pint-size Michelangelo of**
  *the Lincoln High cockloft* by the time Mr.

game, albeit hipper
: If Klensch is **the Cronkite of** the *rag trade*, Crawford is **a
  game, albeit hipper, Kathie Lee**

new
: Leslie Carter is apparently **the new Marie Osmond**
  <!-- here "new" is the modifier? -->


Recursion
---------

- Barack Obama: »There is a reason you call someone the Michael Jordan
  of \[something\]. They know what you're talking about because
  Michael Jordan is the Michael Jordan of greatness. He is the
  definition of somebody so good at what they do that everybody
  recognizes it. That's pretty rare.« (Washington Post, 22.11.2016)

Typical modifiers
-----------------

[temporal](theof/humans/statistics.md#today)
:   "today", "his day", "her day", "his time", "her time", "his
	generation", "her generation", "the future", "the 70s", ...

[geographical](theof/humans/statistics.md#country)
:   continents, countries, cities, mountains ("Himalayas", "Hudson
	Valley"), rivers ("Hudson"), ...

[sports](theof/humans/statistics.md#sports)
:   "tennis", "baseball", "basketball", "golf", ...

[culture](theof/humans/statistics.md#culture)
:   "ballet", "the art world", "jazz", "fashion", ...


Special modifiers
-----------------

more than one
:   The top-hatted statue will utter not a word about the American
	sucker, for the simple reason that Barnum - **the Michelangelo
	of** *buncombe, hokum, hoopla and ballyhoo* - was himself the
	victim of a hoax.


Types of targets
----------------

humans
:    Mr. Price, who could become **the Charles Bronson of**
	 *guacamole*,

groups
:    Aerosmith, **the Dorian Gray of** *rock bands*

organisations
:    Starbucks Coffee, **the General Motors of** *espresso*

animals
:    Sea Hero is the **Bobo Holloman** of *racing*

objects
:   Waterman, **the Rolls-Royce of** *pens* acquired in 1987, and
	Papermate, **the Chevrolet of** *pens*

locations
:   "New York State is **the Cadillac of** *social services*,"
	Mr. Alfonso said. "**Other states** have *Volkswagens*."

Types of sources
-----------------

humans
:    Mr. Price, who could become **the Charles Bronson of**
	 *guacamole*,

organisations
:   Vaz Auto Works, **the General Motors of** *Russia*

fictional characters
:   Mike Wallace, the **Godzilla** of the *tube*

objects
:   Waterman, **the Rolls-Royce of** *pens* acquired in 1987, and
	Papermate, **the Chevrolet of** *pens*

locations
:   Schonbrunn Castle, **the Versailles of** the *Hapsburgs*

<!--

It's also relevant to consider how types of sources and targets are
combined, e.g., whether source and target are of the same or different
type. We should check, which combinations are common or don't exist at
all.

-->

Syntactic variations
--------------------

"the ... equivalent of"
:    New South Wales, the **Georgian equivalent** of *deep space* <!-- is this a VA at all? -->

"the ... version of"
:    Sassy, the **United States version** of *Dolly*

"the ... sort of"
:    George Romney, the **Middle America sort of** *guy* <!-- is this a VA at all? -->

"the ..., the ..., the ... of"
:    Joe Sparks might very well end up being the **Dali**, the
	 **Truffaut**, the **Coppola** of *this industry*

"my version of the ... of ..."
: I was basically my version of the **Michael Scott** of *car
  salesman* which is a total contrast to the way David runs his
  stores.

Misc
----

- Even \[Michael\] Jordan isn't always Jordan. The last time he
  retired, to play baseball, the Chicago Bulls' owner, Jerry
  Reinsdorf, called him the Babe Ruth of basketball.
- "Some people say Claire Shulman is **the Golda Meir of**
  *Queens*. [...] I say Golda Meir was **the Claire Shulman of**
  *Israel*."
- 'I'm like **David** fighting **the Goliath of** *the beauty industry*,'' she said in a recent interview.

Commit message:

added longest found modifier so far

special_cases.md, after:

Special Cases
=============

A collection of special cases of VA along different dimensions. (Some VA
fit into several dimensions.)

<!--

  Often we have several examples for each case. We probably should
  reduce that to a few cases each that show the diversity. Please do
  not remove such (proper) examples but comment them out.

  -->

Who's claiming it?
-------------------

- Her fans in Kerala, in southern India, consider her the **Julia
  Roberts** of *Malayalam-language films*.
- I like to consider myself the **Mae West** of *rock 'n' roll*,''
  Ms. Claret, the lead singer of the band Morningwood, said one recent
  evening.
- The ''85'' riddim is the work of Dave Kelly, a brilliant producer
  who could (but wouldn't) claim to be the **Dr. Dre** of *dancehall*.
- Willoughby is sometimes called the **Lake Lucerne** of *North
  America*


Temporal
--------

- Mr. Price, who could become the **Charles Bronson** of *guacamole*,
- In physique, personality and production, Ortiz could be the **Babe
  Ruth** of *the Dominican Republic*.
- Millicent Fenwick was the **Katharine Hepburn** of *politics*, said
  Charles Millard, a former aide and now a Republican New York City
  Councilman.
- Keith Haring will be the **Peter Max** of *the future*.
- United who has been hailed as the **future Michael Jordan** of
  *American soccer*.
- ''She could be the **Michael Jordan** *that women's basketball
  hasn't yet had*,'' said Michele Timms, a guard for Australia and a
  member of the Phoenix Mercury in the Women's National Basketball
  Association.

Hypothetical
------------

- Who is the Tolstoy of the Zulus?
- Or if you could, find **the Tiger Woods of** *auto racing*: someone
  who could capture the public's attention,'' he said.
- Another question is, Who will be **the Walt Disney of** *this era*?
- It felt right that **the James Bond of** *the future* would bed
  anyone,'' said Steven Moffat, the creator of the BBC sitcom
  ''Coupling'' and the writer of the Captain Jack storyline.
- ''She could be **the Michael Jordan** *that women's basketball
  hasn't yet had*,'' said Michele Timms, a guard for Australia and a
  member of the Phoenix Mercury in the Women's National Basketball
  Association.
- If Mel Gibson was truly **the ''Michelangelo of** *this
  generation*,'' as one supporter puts it, he would open screenings of
  ''The Passion'' to viewers other than those he knows will safely
  embrace it
- Bruce Ellerstein letter says that if Mel Gibson really were
  '**Michelangelo of** *his generation*' he would open up screenings
  of The Passion to viewers other than those he knows will safely
  embrace it

More than one
-------------

- I actually consider myself **the Stalin of** *basketball*,'' he
  says, ''**the Hitler of** *basketball*, **the Pol Pot of**
  *basketball*.''
- Guzman is regarded as "**the Stalin of** *Patchogue*, **the Idi Amin
  of** *Long Island*
- Waterman, **the Rolls-Royce of** *pens* acquired in 1987, and
  Papermate, **the Chevrolet of** *pens*
- "New York State is **the Cadillac of** *social services*,"
  Mr. Alfonso said. "**Other states** have *Volkswagens*."
- A historian and journalist by training, he has nonetheless striven
  for years to bear witness to Montana history in fiction, and to
  become if not the Homer at least **the Virgil of** *generations of
  Scots who migrated to northwestern Montana before and after it
  became a state in 1889*.
- A noted French writer has called Leni Riefenstahl "**the Plato and
  Michelangelo of** *the Leica*," and her films assure her an enduring
  place in cinematic history.
- London, a professor at New York University and the Conservative
  Party candidate four years ago, is the seasoned veteran of this road
  show, a wanderer who is either **the Odysseus or Don Quixote of**
  *the race*, depending how his fortunes fall.
- "he was the Babe Ruth, the Michael Jordan, the Wayne Gretzky of
  racing"
- By the time he stands, slick with sweat and smiling, at the curtain
  calls, the audience is on its feet and screaming for him as if he is
  **the Mick Jagger or Michael Jordan of** *Broadway*.
- If Jones was **the Michael Jordan of** *her time*, scoring at will,
  Cain, 33, is **the Magic Johnson** of *hers*.
- "Romario is **the Michael Jordan of** *soccer* and Bebeto is **the
  Magic Johnson of** *soccer*," said American defender Paul Caligiuri.
- Descriptions of Mr. King as "a *street* **Machiavelli**, a *ghetto*
  **Einstein**" and of Muhammad Ali as "the **Einstein** of *the Sweet
  Science*" hit the eye like a head-butt, and calling Ali's victory
  over George Foreman "an epic, a miracle, a revolution" throws
  rhetoric over the event while illuminating nothing.
- Some possible portents of doom: a recording that advertises
  Beethoven's Fifth Symphony as "the **'Star Wars'** of *symphonic
  music*" and Ludwig van B. himself as the **Kurt Cobain** of *his
  generation*; a famous young virtuoso playing "The Four Seasons" in a
  music video broadcast on the Weather Channel; arousing anthologies
  of "Sensual Classics" aimed at heterosexual or homosexual listeners;
  disks of Arvo Part's music stamped with a descriptive blurb from
  Michael Stipe of R.E.M.
  [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#0744055_0)

<!-- many more can be found here:
https://github.com/weltliteratur/vossanto/blob/master/first/notes.org#more-than-three-parts-but-not-if-
-->


Combined with a condition:
- If Mr. Moynihan is the **Sherlock Holmes** of *the fiscal story*,
  then Mr. Stockman is at once *its* **Dr. Watson** and *its*
  **Moriarty**
- If Wrigley is the **Faneuil Hall Marketplace** of *ball parks*,
  Comiskey is **Paddy's Market**.
- If Wynton Marsalis is the **Steven Spielberg** of *the jazz scene*,
  the alto saxophonist Steve Coleman has a strong claim to being *its*
  **Stanley
  Kubrick**. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1104452_0)
- If Ms. Clayburgh was the **Julia Roberts** of *the late 1970's*,
  Gabriel Byrne might be described as the **Humphrey Bogart** of *the
  early
  1990's*. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1701109_0)
- If Toys "R" Us is the **Gulliver** of *toy sellers*, then Nintendo
  is the **Godzilla** of *toys*
- If this was the Zagat's of the air, I would now be the **Ruth
  Reichl** of *the sky*. (?) <!-- is this one? if so, highlight source+modifier -->
- But if Jordan is the **Chuck Yeager** of *basketball*, Julius Erving
  was **Charles Lindbergh** and Connie Hawkins was *its* **Wright
  Brothers**. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#0526474_0)
- If Vanilla Ice is the **Pat Boone** of *hip-hop*, watering down a
  vibrant black musical form to make it appeal to a generic pop
  audience, then G. Love is *its* **Elvis
  Presley**. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#0694707_0)
- If bin Laden is the **Robin Hood** of *jihad*,'' the authors write,
  then Abu Musab al-Zarqawi ''has been *its* **Horatio Alger**, and
  Iraq his field of dreams.''
  [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1719129_0)


<!-- many more can be found here:
https://github.com/weltliteratur/vossanto/blob/master/first/notes.org#if-
-->

A special nested variant where the modifier is also a VA:
- We might claim for Rand a minor place in art history: an interesting
  American modulation of European modernist sobriety into bouncy
  Brooklyn cheerfulness, a **Richard Feynman** among *the Einsteins of
  design*, taking a Klee doodle for a walk on a Mondrian Manhattan
  grid. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1125694_0)
- He is a curmudgeon with opinions but no conviction, the **Andy
  Rooney** of *the Sahara of the Bozart*. (?)
  [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#0302493_0)

Some form of negation
---------------------

- Leach Cross, ''the fighting dentist,'' not Benny Leonard, was **the
  Moses of** *American Jewish boxing* (Sports pages, Dec. 27).
- He is not **a Donald Trump of** *the Lower East Side*.
- The ''85'' riddim is the work of Dave Kelly, a brilliant producer
  who could (but wouldn't) claim to be **the Dr. Dre of** *dancehall*.
- ''I am not the Peron of Venezuela, I am **the Chavez of**
  Venezuela,'' he has said.
- The Yankees were not **the Marco Polo of** *baseball*.
- Levine did not come back with **the Yao Ming of** *Chinese baseball*
  because no such person exists.
- ''He has not been **the Michael Jordan** *in the debates*,'' said
  Representative John R.
- ''She could be **the Michael Jordan** *that women's basketball
  hasn't yet had*,'' said Michele Timms, a guard for Australia and a
  member of the Phoenix Mercury in the Women's National Basketball
  Association.

Plural forms
---------------------
- CONCERT bands are **the Rodney Dangerfields of** *the music world*: they get no respect.
- They do not support **the Slobodan Milosevics of**  *the region*.
- That's Jim Wright's party, or ought to be, and trying to seduce **the Donald Trumps of** *this world* won't fool them or save it.
- He and other composers were **the Andrew Lloyd-Webbers of** *their day*, writing popular musicals in the hope of box-office success.
- To some, agreements among nations may seem like hopelessly weak weapons against **the Osama bin Ladens of** *the world*, who aren't known for consulting international law before acting.

Including explanations
---------------------
- It’s **the Dolly Parton of** *cakes*: a little bit tacky, but you love her,” said Angie Mosier, a food writer in Atlanta and a board member of the Southern Foodways Alliance at the University of Mississippi in Oxford.
- If not, Odom will become **the Randy Moss of** *the N.B.A.*, a guy with a lot of question marks who may pay huge dividends.
- He became **the Joyce Carol Oates of** *pop*, incredibly prolific with variable quality.
- She describes herself as "**the Donald Trump of** *the horse show world*," buying and selling horses like so many pieces of real estate, pocketing a profit and never shedding a tear as she watches her property being trucked away.
- He has since established himself as **the Tim McCarver of** *tennis*, the undisputed master of his craft.
- Mr. Cave is **the Elvis of** *punk*, a beloved and semitragic cult icon who for years has been battling the demon of his own image.
- It is the **Madonna** of *Italian-American literature* in that it shows the transition from the Italian immigrant to American citizen like no other book of its genre.''
- We might claim for Rand a minor place in art history: an interesting American modulation of European modernist sobriety into bouncy Brooklyn cheerfulness, a **Richard Feynman** among *the Einsteins of design*, taking a Klee doodle for a walk on a Mondrian Manhattan grid.
- Sam Schwartz, who writes the Gridlock Sam column for The Daily News,
  calls him the **Beethoven** of *traffic cops* -- in other words, he
  does not direct traffic so much as conduct it, like a
  symphony. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1035441_0)
- He is the **Stanley Kubrick** of *New York chefs* -- difficult to
  get a read on, by most accounts difficult to deal with, but always
  pointed in a direction that feels as though it will lead straight to
  the next big
  thing. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1175017_0)

Additional adjectives
---------------------

next
: ''I think Jason Giambi will be **the next Babe Ruth of** *New
  York*,'' Rodriguez said.

future
: United who has been hailed as **the future Michael Jordan of**
  *American soccer*.

would-be
: Suppose you are **a would-be Michael Jordan of** *my trade*,
  consulting?

undisputed
: Over the last 24 years, he has emerged as **the undisputed Don
  Quixote of** *the State Legislature*, a man willing to rail
  endlessly about the political misdeeds of the majority even when
  absolutely nobody was listening.

abused pint-size
: He has already had an encounter with two of the students -- the
  troubled basketball star Lester Dewitt (Usher Raymond) and Ziggy
  Malone (Robert Ri'chard ), **the abused pint-size Michelangelo of**
  *the Lincoln High cockloft* by the time Mr.

game, albeit hipper
: If Klensch is **the Cronkite of** the *rag trade*, Crawford is **a
  game, albeit hipper, Kathie Lee**

new
: Leslie Carter is apparently **the new Marie Osmond**
  <!-- here "new" is the modifier? -->


Recursion
---------

- Barack Obama: »There is a reason you call someone the Michael Jordan
  of \[something\]. They know what you're talking about because
  Michael Jordan is the Michael Jordan of greatness. He is the
  definition of somebody so good at what they do that everybody
  recognizes it. That's pretty rare.« (Washington Post, 22.11.2016)

Typical modifiers
-----------------

[temporal](theof/humans/statistics.md#today)
:   "today", "his day", "her day", "his time", "her time", "his
	generation", "her generation", "the future", "the 70s", ...

[geographical](theof/humans/statistics.md#country)
:   continents, countries, cities, mountains ("Himalayas", "Hudson
	Valley"), rivers ("Hudson"), ...

[sports](theof/humans/statistics.md#sports)
:   "tennis", "baseball", "basketball", "golf", ...

[culture](theof/humans/statistics.md#culture)
:   "ballet", "the art world", "jazz", "fashion", ...


Special modifiers
-----------------

more than one
:   The top-hatted statue will utter not a word about the American
	sucker, for the simple reason that Barnum - the **Michelangelo**
	of *buncombe, hokum, hoopla and ballyhoo* - was himself the victim
	of a hoax.

longest so far
:   And while he modestly demurs, Mr. Barker is widely regarded as the
	**Bob Fosse** of *the carefully choreographed event that consumes
	Midtown Manhattan with tin whistles, step dancers and some two
	million spectators on that invariably brisk March 17
	morning*. [link](https://vossanto.weltliteratur.net/timeline/#1276052_0)


Types of targets
----------------

humans
:    Mr. Price, who could become **the Charles Bronson of**
	 *guacamole*,

groups
:    Aerosmith, **the Dorian Gray of** *rock bands*

organisations
:    Starbucks Coffee, **the General Motors of** *espresso*

animals
:    Sea Hero is the **Bobo Holloman** of *racing*

objects
:   Waterman, **the Rolls-Royce of** *pens* acquired in 1987, and
	Papermate, **the Chevrolet of** *pens*

locations
:   "New York State is **the Cadillac of** *social services*,"
	Mr. Alfonso said. "**Other states** have *Volkswagens*."

Types of sources
-----------------

humans
:    Mr. Price, who could become **the Charles Bronson of**
	 *guacamole*,

organisations
:   Vaz Auto Works, **the General Motors of** *Russia*

fictional characters
:   Mike Wallace, the **Godzilla** of the *tube*

objects
:   Waterman, **the Rolls-Royce of** *pens* acquired in 1987, and
	Papermate, **the Chevrolet of** *pens*

locations
:   Schonbrunn Castle, **the Versailles of** the *Hapsburgs*

<!--

It's also relevant to consider how types of sources and targets are
combined, e.g., whether source and target are of the same or different
type. We should check, which combinations are common or don't exist at
all.

-->

Syntactic variations
--------------------

"the ... equivalent of"
:    New South Wales, the **Georgian equivalent** of *deep space* <!-- is this a VA at all? -->

"the ... version of"
:    Sassy, the **United States version** of *Dolly*

"the ... sort of"
:    George Romney, the **Middle America sort of** *guy* <!-- is this a VA at all? -->

"the ..., the ..., the ... of"
:    Joe Sparks might very well end up being the **Dali**, the
	 **Truffaut**, the **Coppola** of *this industry*

"my version of the ... of ..."
: I was basically my version of the **Michael Scott** of *car
  salesman* which is a total contrast to the way David runs his
  stores.

Misc
----

- Even \[Michael\] Jordan isn't always Jordan. The last time he
  retired, to play baseball, the Chicago Bulls' owner, Jerry
  Reinsdorf, called him the Babe Ruth of basketball.
- "Some people say Claire Shulman is **the Golda Meir of**
  *Queens*. [...] I say Golda Meir was **the Claire Shulman of**
  *Israel*."
- 'I'm like **David** fighting **the Goliath of** *the beauty industry*,'' she said in a recent interview.
